# Master-Thesis
This is a repository that contains a version of my master thesis. 
The thesis was submitted in 2016 at the Hertie School. Hence the code and the data available at the respective APIs created this fully reprodicible workflow. Rerunning the code could lead to deviating results, due to changing data and other packages (the version of the packages used for this thesis are cited in the bibliography). 
I wrote this master thesis without using GitHub, hence no project history is available. 

# Executive Summary
Political scientists as well as policy makers are interested in the determinants of elections. Several studies have investigated elections under increased globalization with regard to how voters assign responsibility for economic outcomes, extract information about incumbents' competence from economic performance, and hold incumbents accountable. Results, however, remain inconclusive. Some studies highlight the ability of voters to adjust the extent to which they reward or punish incumbents to the amount to which the incumbent is (potentially) responsible for economic outcomes. Other studies show that voters do not adjust their assessment accordingly.
This master thesis investigates the relationship between the economic vote and globalization on an aggregate level with a sample of 23 OECD countries from 1970 onwards. It is shown that voters continue to apply a high standard for economic outcomes if the economy is globalized. Some assume that this is bad news for democracy, as it might distort the incentives for incumbents to act in the public's interest. This is not necessarily the case, because voters (or third parties) also engage in benchmarking with other countries and thereby provide incentives to outperform relevant reference countries.
This indicates that voters are not satisfied with the frame that economic policy is (mostly) out of reach of incumbent governments in a globalized context. This, in turn, increases the pressure for policy makers and incumbents to deliver on the economic agenda. However, in a context of strong institutions this might also lead to further political integration in order to retain the capacity of the government to deliver on the economic agenda. In addition, this might lead to the selection of (new) policy makers and politicians who are capable to provide these economic outcomes.
